Objective
Develop a stochastic risk analysis model to predict FMD vaccine numbers and an interactive user interface.

Summary of Development
VADEMOS
VADEMOS is the name of the FMD vaccine number estimation tool made by EuFMD. URL to VADEMOS: https://eufmd.shinyapps.io/vaccinationmodel Ask Hyojung L. or Sylvia E. regarding Login info.

Language
R for modeling and interface development // Python for data cleaning

Modeling tool
mc2d package in R to run a two-dimensional Monte-Carlo simulation

Interactive interface
The developed model was distributed with a web-based interactive interface built with R Shiny package. The tool is currently deployed with Shinyapps.io, a cloud service for R products, with a free plan.


Data
Parameters Data sources
Parameter	Unit	Distribution	Source	Notes
Population (LR, SR, P)	head	lognormal	FAOSTAT, Country's Statistical Institute	Future pops between 2021-2030 generated with a lognormal regression
Growth Rate (LR, SR, P)	%	normal	Calculated data	Python
PCP Stages	.	.	Collated from different sources, etc. Roadmap meetings, FAST reports	.
Livestock Density (LR, SR, P)	head/km^2	lognormal	FAOSTAT + calculated data	Population divided by agricultural area(km^2)
Sector Proportion	%	normal	FAOSTAT, Country's Statistical Institue, Focal points	No exact data available; deduced by the number of slaughtered animals per sector
Age Proportion	%	normal	Country's Statistical Institue, Focal points	No solid sources available; default value deduced from Turkey's data
Vaccinatnion area (ring)	km^2	.	Focal points	Emergency vaccination ring area from the epicenter
Outbreak numbers	N	Poisson	Roadmap meetings, FAST reports, OIE WAHIS	No solid sources available; intensive data mining required
Prophylactic vaccine coverage	%	BetaPERT	Q2 responses of Delphi questionnaire	PCP-stage specific parameter
Outbreak coverage by vaccination	%	BetaPERT	Q3 responses of Delphi questionnaire	PCP-stage specific parameter
Outbreak reduction	%	BetaPERT	Q4 responses of Delphi questionnaire	PCP-stage specific parameter
Dictionary
LR: Large Ruminants (Cattle)
SR: Small Ruminants (Sheep+Goat)
P: Pigs
Focal points: Country representatives. We had asked to 3 Focal points (Georgia, Iran, Turkey) to provide us insights on their missing data a long time ago.
Delphi questionnaire: Sarah W. and the team conducted Delphi survey to gather expert opinions on three unknown values (Prophylactic vaccine coverage, Outbreak coverage by vaccination, Outbreak reduction). In Round 1 of the Delphi, they didn't gather enough data to fit a BetaPERT distribution on it (e.g. lack of mode; the most probable value), therefore, the data was forced to have a BetaPERT using median as a replacement of the mode. In Round 2, only 2 responses were gathered and those were not parameterized to avoid bias.
There are a lot of missing values due to the limited availability of country-specific data. For those parameters, default values were inserted as a place holder and a user should be able to modify those through a web-based interface.
Countries
Oct.2021 3 Asian countries (Georgia, Turkey, Iran) + 3 African countries (Ethoiopia, Uganda, Zambia)

Jan.2022 11 Western Asian countries added (countries from the Western Asia region without historic PCP records were excluded)

Total 72 countries available in VADEMOS 2022


Validation of the data and outcome of the prediction
Hosted a a workshop designed for veterinary services from 6 countries (Georgia, Iran, Turkey, Ethiopia, Uganda, Zambia) to evaluate the quality of the input data collated as well as the ouput produced by the model. Gathered feedback is available in a post-workshop report.

Files
vaccinationmodel.R : Parameter processing & Monte-Carlo simulation
predictPops.R : helper function for vaccinationmodel.R
plotOutputs.R : output graphing
app.R : Shiny UI and server defined
UIParts.R : 'tool' tab in Shiny UI
UIForms.R : 'survey' and 'feedback' tab in Shiny UI
about.Rhtml : 'about' tab, general info on the model and EuFMD
help.Rhtml : sidepanel of 'tool' tab
footer.html : footer with EuFMD logos
www/model.css : css for color scheme, look adjustments
